---
layout: post
title:      "Final Portfolio Project: React/Redux"
date:       2021-02-21 19:58:39 +0000
permalink:  final_portfolio_project_react_redux
---


So, how was React/Redux... well, honestly for me, it was 50/50. I thoroughly enjoyed learning and using the React framework. However, when it comes to Redux... well, even though we're in project mode, I can tell you, I'm still struggling to understand how to use it. I understand its purpose and the reasons for using it, but it's the understanding exactly how to properly use it. At the time of writing this blog, I still have plenty of time to do some more research on Redux and to review all of the labs, readings, and code-alongs from the curriculum to hopefully better understand Redux. So, overall, React was very much my friend, where Redux was, not necessarily an enemy, but just kind of a nuisance. 

For my final project for this final module of the cohort, I will be making a fitness tracker for those gym-monkies that are out there. This web application will allow the user to keep track of their daily workouts; you can log the number of sets and repetitions for each exercise that you carryout within a particular workout. Not only can the application keep track of your workouts, but you can also keep track of the meals you eat and your calorie consumption for a full day based on the particular foods you have entered for the day. This project of course will utilize full CRUD functionality, allowing a user to enter new workouts and new meals for a particular day, but if they also need to either edit or delete a particular workout/meal, then they can definitely do so. I will also be incorporating a component that will be a calculator/tracker of the user's Body Mass Index (BMI), as well as, a component that will contain a line graph that can be used to view how their BMI has changed over the course of either a week, a month, or a year depending on how long the user has an account, of course. 

Roughly 10-months ago when I first started my cohort, I have been dreaming of this day. The day where my cohort officially enters the "end-game." We are officially in, not just final project mode for the module, but the final-final project mode, where the end of this project will officially mark the end of the software engineering curriculum for my cohort. Once everyone passes their project review, we'll officially be in the "job hunt." The reason I put "job hunt," in quotation
marks is because, where I'm sure most, if not all, of my cohort-mates will be transitioning straight into a job after their time at Flatiron schools, myself, however, will actually be continuing my education after graduating Flatiron. I have the opportunity to attend a community college around where I live to pursue a 2-year, Associates of Applied Science in Computer Science degree. Most people would probably ask, "well, you don't really need a college degree to become a 
software engineer, so why bother?" That is a great question and I'm glad you asked. The only reason why I have decided to pursue this path after Flatiron is because my employer offers tuition assistance to associates who have worked at least one full year at the company, and in the middle of my cohort, I actually hit my one year anniversary with my employer. So, not only will my employer be providing assistance to help pay for this degree, but they'll actually be covering... what for it... 95% of the tuition for this degree.

Yes, I promise you that number is correct... they'll be providing 95% of the tuition, so I won't even need to apply for any loans/financial aid, since that last 5% will be a small amount that I can just pay for myself, so I will have absolutely no debt after finishing this degree program, which makes it even better. So, if I were to find a job and leave my current employer, I may never have this opportunity again, so I figured I would utilize it while I can, even if it means putting off the official job hunt for a little while longer.

So, for all of my cohort-mates, I wish you all the best of luck with your final projects and your projects reviews, as well as, your hunting for a job to officially start your new careers as software engineers. To those who are just starting or in the middle of your cohorts at Flatiron, I wish you all the best of luck with the rest of your cohort and with your job hunt, as well when you get to that point. 
